## Glossary

- **Fee**: Refers to the fee settings related to the V2 PT-AMM pools.
- **The Whitepaper**: Refers to the whitepaper `V2_AMM.pdf` unless otherwise specified.
- **SY** : is a Standardized Yield token.
- **Asset**: Refers to the underlying asset of the SY token.
- **PT** : is a PT token of the same SY token.

## Background

In Pendle V2, a variety of AMM pools are available, allowing traders to swap assets for PT, YT, or vice versa. The swap fee plays a crucial role in shaping the user experience. If the fee is set incorrectly, it can have the following effects:

- **Too High**: This would deter traders from swapping, ultimately reducing the profits of LPs and vePendle voters. Although the fee per transaction may increase, the overall volume of swaps would decrease.
- **Too Low**: This would undermine the profits of LPs and vePendle voters, even though the volume of swaps might increase significantly.

This situation is analogous to a **market competition model** in economics. In such models, a company’s revenue is given by $$R= P \times Q$$, where $$P$$ is the price and $$Q$$ is the quantity sold. If the price is set incorrectly, the revenue will not be optimized, even though the quantity $$Q$$ may increase.

Previously, our team introduced the “Efficient Ratio” as an indicator to measure the effectiveness of fee settings in specific pools. In this data-driven report, we aim to explore the following:

- Has the “Efficient Ratio” functioned well in evaluating the effectiveness of fee settings? If not, is there a more suitable alternative indicator?
- How do different fee tiers affect the “Efficient Ratio”? What is the optimal range according to historical data?

## Fee Calculation

In Pendle V2 AMM, there are two types of fees:

- **Explicit Fee**: These are the fees charged according to the specific fee tier of each pool, as displayed in the app. The distribution is as follows:
  - 20% is allocated to LP holders.
  - 80% is distributed to vePENDLE voters.
- **Implicit Fee**: These fees are generated by the formula used to quote the price for each swap. 
  - The formula is “relatively protective of the AMM pool,” meaning it quotes a conservative price to prevent potential exploitation of the AMM. The larger the trade, the higher the implicit fees.
  - They are not the same as price impact (slippage) in general. They are “on the top” of price impact.
  - 100% is allocated to the LP holders

In this section, we will provide a detailed explanation of these two types of fees.

### Explicit Fees

In V2, the explicit fees are described in the whitepaper `V2_AMM.pdf` and implemented in the smart contracts `MarketMathCore.sol` (Core Logic) and `PendleMarketV3.sol`.

The whitepaper defines the amount of assets going in, denoted as $$d_{asset}$$  as a function of the amount of PT tokens going out, denoted as $$d_{pt}$$:

$$
d_{asset}=\frac{d_{pt}}{exchangeRate(t)}\div or \times feeRateRoot^{yearsToExpiry(t)}
$$
where,

- $$exchangeRate(t)$$ is the spot exchange rate of asset in PT at time $$t$$, excluding any fees
- $$feeRateRoot=1+feetier$$
- $$yearsToExpiry(t)$$ is the time remaining until expiry, measured in years

Accordingly, the fee can be computed as follows:

- if $$d_{pt}>0$$ i.e. swapping assets for PT, then 

  $$
  d_{asset}=\frac{d_{pt}}{exchangeRate(t)}\times feeRateRoot^{yearsToExpiry(t)}
  $$
  The fee is:

  $$
  fee=\frac{d_{pt}}{exchangeRate(t)}(feeRateRoot^{yearsToExpiry(t)}-1)
  $$

- if $$d_{pt}<0$$  i.e. swapping PT for assets, then 

  $$
  d_{asset}=\frac{d_{pt}}{exchangeRate(t)}\div feeRateRoot^{yearsToExpiry(t)}
  $$
  The fee is:
  
  $$
  fee=-\frac{d_{pt}}{exchangeRate(t)}(\frac{1-feeRateRoot^{yearsToExpiry(t)}}{feeRateRoot^{yearsToExpiry(t)}})
  $$
  

This logic is implemented in the `calcTrade` function of `MarketMathCore.sol`. The relevant source code is as follows:

```solidity
function calcTrade(
        MarketState memory market,
        MarketPreCompute memory comp,
        PYIndex index,
        int256 netPtToAccount
    ) internal pure returns (int256 netSyToAccount, int256 netSyFee, int256 netSyToReserve) {
        int256 preFeeExchangeRate = _getExchangeRate(
            market.totalPt,
            comp.totalAsset,
            comp.rateScalar,
            comp.rateAnchor,
            netPtToAccount
        );

        int256 preFeeAssetToAccount = netPtToAccount.divDown(preFeeExchangeRate).neg();
        int256 fee = comp.feeRate;

        if (netPtToAccount > 0) {
            int256 postFeeExchangeRate = preFeeExchangeRate.divDown(fee);
            if (postFeeExchangeRate < PMath.IONE) revert Errors.MarketExchangeRateBelowOne(postFeeExchangeRate);

            fee = preFeeAssetToAccount.mulDown(PMath.IONE - fee);
        } else {
            fee = ((preFeeAssetToAccount * (PMath.IONE - fee)) / fee).neg();
        }

        int256 netAssetToReserve = (fee * market.reserveFeePercent.Int()) / PERCENTAGE_DECIMALS;
        int256 netAssetToAccount = preFeeAssetToAccount - fee;

        netSyToAccount = netAssetToAccount < 0
            ? index.assetToSyUp(netAssetToAccount)
            : index.assetToSy(netAssetToAccount);
        netSyFee = index.assetToSy(fee);
        netSyToReserve = index.assetToSy(netAssetToReserve);
    }
```

where:

1. `fee`  corresponds to $$feeRateRoot^{yearsToExpiry(t)}$$ as described in the whitepaper.
2. `netPtToAccount` corresponds to $$d_{pt}$$ in the whitepaper.
3. A key divergence to note: The whitepaper defines $$d_{asset}=\frac{d_{pt}}{exchangeRate(t)}$$ while in the `calcTrade` function, we define $$d_{asset}=-\frac{d_{pt}}{exchangeRate(t)}$$:

```
int256 preFeeAssetToAccount = netPtToAccount.divDown(preFeeExchangeRate).neg();
```

#### Approximation Method for Explicit Fee Calculation

When $$d_{pt}$$ is either above or below zero, the fee computation takes two forms, which can be challenging to implement in a real trading environment. To address this, we propose the following approximation method:
$$
fee=d_{assets}\times fee tier \times yearsToExpiry(t)
$$
 For instance, let’s say Alice wants to swap 1000 USDe → 1100 PT-USDe under the following conditions:

- 6 months before maturity
- AMM Fees: 0.3%
  - We charge 0.3% in APY
- Absolute fees Percentage:   0.3% * 0.5 = 0.15%
- Absolute amount = 1000 * 0.15% = 1.5 USDe

This approximation holds because, as $$feeRateRoot \rightarrow 1$$ (i.e., $$feetier \rightarrow 0$$),  the limits of the following expressions converge to zero:

1. $$lim_{feeRateRoot\rightarrow1}(feeRateRoot-1)\cdot yearsToExpiry(t)=0$$
2. $$lim_{feeRateRoot\rightarrow1}feeRateRoot^{yearsToExpiry(t)}-1=0$$
3. $$lim_{feeRateRoot\rightarrow1}-\frac{1-feeRateRoot^{yearsToExpiry(t)}}{feeRateRoot^{yearsToExpiry(t)}}=0$$

#### YT-related Fees

In V2, YT swaps are facilitated through flash swaps within the same pool. Typically, YT swaps incur higher fees than PT swaps.

For example, suppose Bob wants to swap 50 USDe → 1100 YT-USDe:

- This is equivalent to a 1100 PT swap.
- Fees = 1000 USDe \* 0.3% \* 0.5=1.5 USDe.

Even though the amount of assets involved is only 50 USDe, the fees generated are the same as those in Alice’s case, where she swaps 1000 USDe → 1100 PT-USDe.

### Implicit Fees

It is important to clarify that **implicit fees are not caused by the price impact (slippage)** inherent in the AMM model.

#### Price Impact

Before diving into the Pendle V2 case, let's first consider Uniswap V2 as an example.

Suppose there is a pool containing $$x$$ amount of A tokens and $$y$$ amount of B tokens. When we use $$dx$$ A tokens to swap for $$dy$$ B tokens, we derive the equation:
$$
(x+dx)(y-dy)=k
$$
Thus, we can express $$dy$$ as:
$$
dy=\frac{y\cdot dx}{x+dx}
$$
In an actual swap, the price of this transaction in terms of B tokens is:
$$
\frac{dx}{dy}=\frac{x+dx}{y}
$$
However, before the swap, the price is $$\frac{x}{y}$$, so the **slippage** is:
$$
Slippage_y=\frac{dx}{dy}-\frac{x}{y}=\frac{dx}{y}
$$
It is obvious that as $$dx$$ increases, becomes larger.

Now, let's return to the Pendle V2 case. According to the `V2_AMM` whitepaper, if a user *u* buys $$d_{pt}$$ PT from the market, the actual swap price is 
$$
\begin{aligned}
\frac{d_{pt}}{d_{asset}}&\equiv exchangeRate_{trade}\\
&=\left(\frac{ln\frac{p_{trade}(t)}{1-p_{trade}(t)}}{rateScalar(t)}+rateAnchor(t)\right)\times or \div feeRateRoot^{yearsToExpiry(t)}
\end{aligned}
$$
where,
$$
p_{trade}(t)=\frac{n_{pt}(t*)-d_{pt}}{n_{pt}(t*)+n_{asset}(t*)}
$$
Before the transaction, the price is 
$$
exchangeRate=\frac{ln\frac{p(t)}{1-p(t)}}{rateScalar(t)}+rateAnchor(t)
$$
Accordingly, the slippage is
$$
\begin{aligned}
Slippage&=exchangeRate_{trade}-exchangeRate
\end{aligned}
$$
Expanding the full expression leads to a more complex derivation. 

#### Definition of Implicit Fee

Unfortunately, **implicit fees** are not the same as price impact, as clarified above.

For example, if the current market rate is 15%, a large trade might have an average APY of 16% (1% higher than the market rate). In this case, part of the 1% difference is due to price impact, while the rest is attributable to implicit fees.

If the user splits the large trade into infinitely small amounts, the average APY might drop to 15.8%, for example. Here, 0.8% represents the pure price impact, and 0.2% is the implicit fees.

Thus, we can define implicit fees as follows:

**Implicit Fees** = The additional cost to the user compared to trading an infinitesimally small amount until the full trade is completed, excluding the portion of the cost caused by price impact.

## Dataset Description

The dataset used in this report can be accessed via the following link:

{% embed url="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1zj-_LgmqT0yYaYYzOe7SxgobeU4R3oa_/edit?gid=346510582#gid=346510582" %}

**Note:** Data was accessed on January 26, 2025.

### Data Preprocessing

We have preemptively removed 14 pool samples with missing data, including:

- Kyber Elastic axlWstEth-wstETH 28MAR2024
- Syrup USDC 24APR2025
- sETH-wstEthSilo 28MAR2024
- vETH-WETH_BalancerLP Aura 26SEP2024
- ether.fi eBTC 27MAR2025
- Sophon Farming PEPE 26DEC2024
- gDAI 26DEC2024
- mPendle 26DEC2024
- oETH 25DEC2025
- Ethena sUSDE 31OCT2024
- Staking MNT 26DEC2024
- Stargate USDT 27JUN2024
- PENDLE-ETH_Camelot 26JUN2025
- Ethena USDe 31OCT2024

### Descriptive Statistics

Below is a summary of key statistics for the dataset:

| pool               | Fee Tier | AverageIY | Average Daily LP TVL   | Total Swap Fee    | Total Swap Fee (im+ex) | Average Daily Swap Fee | EfficientRatio* | EfficientRatioB** |
| ------------------ | -------- | --------- | ---------------------- | ----------------- | ---------------------- | ---------------------- | --------------- | ----------------- |
| Minimum            | 0.03%    | 2.20%     | 62,036.00              | 96.00             | 207.62                 | 1.45                   | 0.03%           | 0.00%             |
| Maximum            | 3.00%    | 153.40%   | 128,584,588.00         | 1,897,019.00      | 2,471,809.24           | 16,640.52              | 75.19%          | 235.00%           |
| Average            | 0.21%    | 16.25%    | 11,518,886.41          | 64,581.49         | 113,792.33             | 742.86                 | 4.97%           | 14.77%            |
| Median             | 0.10%    | 9.50%     | 4,350,257.00           | 4,464.00          | 9,986.41               | 56.80                  | 1.57%           | 5.00%             |
| Standard Deviation | 0.29%    | 19.12%    | 19,660,958.27          | 182,101.40        | 289,744.22             | 1,965.29               | 9.62%           | 25.05%            |
| Variance           | 0.000008 | 0.04      | 386,553,279,972,616.00 | 33,160,920,898.11 | 83,951,710,675.30      | 3,862,348.99           | 0.01            | 0.06              |
| Skewness           | 5.08     | 4.05      | 3.08                   | 5.86              | 4.55                   | 4.56                   | 4.45            | 4.57              |
| Kurtosis           | 39.53    | 22.78     | 11.05                  | 47.35             | 26.54                  | 25.96                  | 24.38           | 30.36             |

**Statistical Observations**

- **Right-Skewed Distribution (Positive Skewness):** Most variables exhibit strong positive skewness, indicating that the distributions have long right tails. This suggests that while the majority of pools operate within a relatively small range, a few pools have significantly higher values, pulling the mean upward.
- **Leptokurtic Distributions (High Kurtosis):** The kurtosis values for most variables are extremely high (e.g., **Total Swap Fee = 47.35**, **Efficient RatioB = 30.36**), indicating **fat-tailed** distributions. This means that extreme values (outliers) occur more frequently than in a normal distribution. In other words, while most pools cluster around lower values, a few outliers experience extremely high activity.

## Evaluation of Efficient Ratio

From a user's perspective, the fee incurred in each transaction is an important consideration. However, from the protocol's point of view, the focus is on the overall fees generated by a pool over time, which reflects its revenue. Since pools can differ in terms of start date, expiry date, TVL, underlying assets, and other factors, comparing pools based solely on total fees may not be meaningful. Therefore, our team introduces **Efficient Ratios** to assess the **capital efficiency** of specific pools. 

In this section, we aim to evaluate the effectiveness of these **Efficient Ratios** alongside other indicators that reflect the **capital efficiency** of pools, from both financial and statistical perspectives.

We assess these metrics based on three main tests:

1. **Test One:** The efficiency metric must have a solid economic or financial basis. 
2. **Test Two:** The efficiency metric must have strong explanatory or predictive power regarding the pool’s efficiency. Specifically, when we say a pool is efficient, we mean its transaction fees are relatively high while the total value locked (TVL) behind it is relatively low.
3. **Test Three:** The efficiency metric should exhibit sensitivity to ensure it responds effectively to significant changes, making it capable of distinguishing pools with varying levels of efficiency.

### Candidate Metrics and Their Economic Meanings

#### Swap Fees

This includes the following metrics from the dataset:

- Total Swap Fee
- Total Swap Fee (im+ex)
- Average Daily Swap Fee

These metrics only account for the fees generated by the pool and do not consider the liquidity used. As such, they are not ideal efficiency metrics and are only included here for comparison purposes.

#### TVL

The **Average Daily LP TVL** in the dataset.

Similarly, this metric only considers the cost side of the pool and is not a good efficiency metric on its own. It is included here for comparison.

#### Efficient Ratio and its Variants

There are two key types of **efficient ratio** we consider:
$$
\begin{aligned}
&EfficientRatio=\frac{Average\ Daily\ Swap\ Fee * 365}{ Average\ Daily\ LP\ TVL}\\
&EfficientRatioB= \frac{Notional\ Trading\ Volume }{Average\ Daily\ LP\ TVL}
\end{aligned}
$$
First, we observe that these are ratio metrics, and it is important to check both the numerator and denominator to ensure the whole fraction makes sense from an economic or financial perspective.

For the first efficient ratio, it compares the total annualized swap fees to the average daily TVL (Total Value Locked) of the pool. A higher ratio indicates that the pool generates more fees for each unit of liquidity provided, which suggests better operational efficiency.

For the second efficient ratio, this metric helps assess how active the pool is relative to its liquidity. A higher ratio indicates more trading activity per unit of liquidity, suggesting that the pool is more liquid and active.

The first efficient ratio is similar to a financial ratio in traditional finance: **asset turnover ratio**, which is typically defined as:
$$
\text{Asset Turnover Ratio}=\frac{\text{Sales Revenue}}{\text{Average Total Assets}}
$$
The asset turnover ratio measures how effectively a company uses its total assets to generate revenue. It reflects the amount of sales or revenue generated for every unit of asset employed.

However, note that the numerator of the first efficient ratio uses an average, which is then simply annualized, rather than using a static value like sales revenue in the case of the asset turnover ratio. This approach better reflects the daily variations in the metric. Nevertheless, we could also design a similar efficiency ratio inspired by the asset turnover ratio:
$$
\begin{aligned}
&EfficientRatioC=\frac{Total\ Swap\ Fees}{ Average\ Daily\ LP\ TVL}
\end{aligned}
$$
The numerator of this ratio does not distinguish between the portion of swap fees that goes to LPs and vePendle voters. In reality, LPs receive 20% of the fees, so we can adjust the formula as follows:
$$
EfficientRatioforLP=\frac{0.2*Total\ Swap\ Fees}{Average\ Daily\ LP\ TVL}
$$
In many statistical analyses, multiplying **EfficientRatioC** by a fixed proportional constant (like 0.2 for LPs) does not affect the overall analysis. Thus, this modified version has a more solid economic or financial interpretation.

We can also consider another variant of the efficient ratio defined as:
$$
EfficientRatioYRC=\frac{Total\ Swap\ Fees}{Average\ Daily\ Yield\ Receviable}
$$
Where:
$$
Average\ Daily\ Yield\ Receviable=\frac{Average\ Daily\ LP\ TVL\times Average\ Implied\ Rate}{365}
$$
This metric measures how much swap fee is supported by the average daily yield generated by one unit of reward-bearing token in the pool.

### Test 2: Explanatory Power

#### Efficiency Factor

We can apply factor analysis, a statistical method, to reduce the dimensionality of strongly correlated variables. In our dataset, there are many metrics related to measuring fees and TVL, and we can use this method to condense them into two variables for further analysis.

After a series of statistical treatments, we derive the following factor [1]:
$$
\begin{aligned}
EfficientFactor1=&-0.245*Average\ Daily\ LP\ TVL+0.401 *Average\ Daily\ Swap\ Fee\\
&+0.415Total Swap Fee+0.319Total Swap Fee(im+ex)\\
EfficientFactor2=&1.056*Average\ Daily\ LP\ TVL-0.148*Average\ Daily\ Swap\ Fee\\
&-0.144*Total Swap Fee+0.059*Total Swap Fee(im+ex)
\end{aligned}
$$
The score coefficients of the first factor are primarily concentrated on the three swap fee-related variables, which can be interpreted as an income factor. The score coefficients of the second factor are mainly focused on TVL, which can be interpreted as a cost factor. Together, these two factors reflect the tradeoff between income and cost when evaluating efficiency.

Next, we can examine the explanatory power of the previous candidate metrics in relation to these two efficiency factors, in order to identify the optimal candidate metric.

To be more specific, we are going to use correlation coefficients to measure explanatory power. It has been tested that these variables do not conform to a normal distribution, so we may use the Spearman and Kendall tau-b correlation coefficients here.

**Spearman's rho**
Spearman's rank correlation coefficient measures the strength and direction of association between two ranked variables. It is calculated as follows:

Where:
$$
\rho=1-\frac{6\sum d^2}{n(n^2-1)}
$$

- $$d$$ is the difference between the ranks of each pair of values.
- $$n$$ is the number of observations.

**Kendall's tau-b**
Kendall's tau-b is another measure of correlation that evaluates the strength of association between two variables, specifically addressing ties. It is calculated as:
$$
\tau_b=\frac{P-Q}{\sqrt{(P+Q+T_1)(P+Q+T_2)}}
$$
Where:

- $$P$$ is the number of concordant pairs.
- $$Q$$ is the number of discordant pairs.
- $$T_1$$ and $$T_2$$ are the number of ties in each variable.

Here are the results:

| Spearman's rho         | Average Daily LP TVL | Total Swap Fee | Total Swap Fee (im+ex) | Average Daily Swap Fee | EfficientRatio* | EfficientRatioB** | EfficientRatioC | EfficientRatioforLP | EfficientRatioYRC | EfficientFactor1 | EfficientFactor2 |
| ---------------------- | -------------------- | -------------- | ---------------------- | ---------------------- | --------------- | ----------------- | --------------- | ------------------- | ----------------- | ---------------- | ---------------- |
| Average Daily LP TVL   | --                   |                |                        |                        |                 |                   |                 |                     |                   |                  |                  |
| Total Swap Fee         | .758**               | --             |                        |                        |                 |                   |                 |                     |                   |                  |                  |
| Total Swap Fee (im+ex) | .701**               | .964**         | --                     |                        |                 |                   |                 |                     |                   |                  |                  |
| Average Daily Swap Fee | .745**               | .915**         | .868**                 | --                     |                 |                   |                 |                     |                   |                  |                  |
| EfficientRatio*        | -.155*               | .333**         | .415**                 | .455**                 | --              |                   |                 |                     |                   |                  |                  |
| EfficientRatioB**      | 0.027                | .366**         | .421**                 | .504**                 | .810**          | --                |                 |                     |                   |                  |                  |
| EfficientRatioC        | -0.098               | .474**         | .582**                 | .377**                 | .813**          | .586**            | --              |                     |                   |                  |                  |
| EfficientRatioforLP    | -0.098               | .474**         | .582**                 | .377**                 | .813**          | .586**            | 1.000**         | --                  |                   |                  |                  |
| EfficientRatioYRC      | -.163*               | .369**         | .436**                 | .180**                 | .494**          | .301**            | .804**          | .804**              | --                |                  |                  |
| EfficientFactor1       | 0.097                | .600**         | .631**                 | .564**                 | .783**          | .598**            | .836**          | .836**              | .631**            | --               |                  |
| EfficientFactor2       | .889**               | .557**         | .509**                 | .536**                 | -.343**         | -.133*            | -.279**         | -.279**             | -.284**           | -0.003           | --               |

\*\* *Correlation is significant at the 0.01 level (2-tailed)*.
\**Correlation is significant at the 0.05 level (2-tailed)*.



| **Kendall's tau_b**    | Average Daily LP TVL | Total Swap Fee | Total Swap Fee (im+ex) | Average Daily Swap Fee | EfficientRatio* | EfficientRatioB** | EfficientRatioC | EfficientRatioforLP | EfficientRatioYRC | EfficientFactor1 | EfficientFactor2 |
| ---------------------- | -------------------- | -------------- | ---------------------- | ---------------------- | --------------- | ----------------- | --------------- | ------------------- | ----------------- | ---------------- | ---------------- |
| Average Daily LP TVL   | --                   |                |                        |                        |                 |                   |                 |                     |                   |                  |                  |
| Total Swap Fee         | .557**               | --             |                        |                        |                 |                   |                 |                     |                   |                  |                  |
| Total Swap Fee (im+ex) | .504**               | .853**         | --                     |                        |                 |                   |                 |                     |                   |                  |                  |
| Average Daily Swap Fee | .538**               | .750**         | .686**                 | --                     |                 |                   |                 |                     |                   |                  |                  |
| EfficientRatio         | -.119**              | .229**         | .287**                 | .316**                 | --              |                   |                 |                     |                   |                  |                  |
| EfficientRatioB        | 0.013                | .260**         | .300**                 | .355**                 | .619**          | --                |                 |                     |                   |                  |                  |
| EfficientRatioC        | -0.08                | .333**         | .416**                 | .258**                 | .637**          | .429**            | --              |                     |                   |                  |                  |
| EfficientRatioforLP    | -0.08                | .333**         | .416**                 | .258**                 | .637**          | .429**            | 1.000**         | --                  |                   |                  |                  |
| EfficientRatioYRC      | -.111*               | .250**         | .298**                 | .125**                 | .352**          | .227**            | .612**          | .612**              | --                |                  |                  |
| EfficientFactor1       | 0.04                 | .453**         | .481**                 | .426**                 | .590**          | .427**            | .647**          | .647**              | .446**            | --               |                  |
| EfficientFactor2       | .864**               | .425**         | .379**                 | .403**                 | -.246**         | -.095*            | -.202**         | -.202**             | -.194**           | -0.021           | --               |

\*\* *Correlation is significant at the 0.01 level (2-tailed)*.
\**Correlation is significant at the 0.05 level (2-tailed)*.



### Test 3: Sensitivity



## References

1. [MarketMathCore.sol - WORKSPACE - Blockscan contract source code viewer](https://vscode.blockscan.com/ethereum/0x40789E8536C668c6A249aF61c81b9dfaC3EB8F32)
2. [PendleMarketV3.sol - WORKSPACE - Blockscan contract source code viewer](https://vscode.blockscan.com/ethereum/0x40789E8536C668c6A249aF61c81b9dfaC3EB8F32)